you said that your views on animal
morality are speciesist so with that did
you mean that it is okay to kill animals
and let's say in the context like
needlessly when you don't need to so if
you're at a grocery store if you have
access to a grocery store and you can
either choose to eat a fully vegan diet
or if you choose to eat on an omnivorous
diet it's okay to needlessly kill an
animal for food just because it's a
different species on you is that what
you meant by speciesist
yeah so this is the thing what I mean
about people arguing dishonestly
because when you say is it okay to
needlessly kill an animal you are
injecting all sorts of context into this
my position is really simple I am not
convinced that eating meat is immoral
okay well there needs to be a context I
mean if you needed to eat me to survive
like if you were an indigenous person
and you lived in a tribe I'd say it is
morally acceptable to eat meat because
you need to do survive but okay you're
obviously not in that position you have
access to a grocery store you don't need
to kill animals to live and be healthy
okay so you're basically me so you're
basically claiming that it's okay to
needlessly kill animals because they're
not a part of our social contract and it
doesn't affect us no see this is this is
what I talk about when you guys are so
repeatedly dishonest
I did not say I'm not dishonest yes yes
you are Richard and I'm gonna prove it
to you and everybody else again right
now because I already called you out for
the same thing a few minutes ago I had
no point said that it was okay to
needlessly kill animals
you cannot take shut up man shut up you
cannot take my position Andrey spin it
and paint it with your poisonous
fallacious framing
the problem here is that you are
assuming that I am making a case for
something being morally permissible when
I am saying that I have not been
convinced that something should be
morally impermissible there are moral
obligations and their moral virtues and
I am happy to acknowledge that someone
who never kills an animal and lives
their life that way may be more morally
virtuous than me I better of fact I'll
say it now I think they are that is not
the same as a demonstration that there
is a moral obligation to not kill
animals for food and when I talk about
where I draw lines and why it has to do
with rights the ability to understand
rights and the social contract we make
and where we extend it - you're basing
your moral outlook on - on two things on
what social contract and reciprocation
of rights no no I'm not I'm basing my
moral outlook on well-being I'm basing
my moral position well-being period
period
and when I talk about where I draw lines
and why it has to do with rights the
ability to understand rights and the
social contract we make and where we
extended to not once to Dillahunty
mention social contract or anything that
resembles social contract theory it has
to do with rights the ability to
understand rights and the social
contract we make and where we extend it
to not once to Dillahunty mention social
contract or anything that resembles
social contract theory well-being period
okay well do you think I'm basing what
rights I are given based on the the
things that you just mentioned cluding
reciprocation but not the individual
ability for an individual to reciprocate
but the categorical potential for
reciprocation within a group
okay well Matt you if your morale like
if the basis for morality is well-being
then you should be in favor of veganism
because it's not within the best
interest
like it doesn't animals do you kill and
eat them okay so the issue here is
rights whether or not we should extend
no no the issue here is whether or not
there's a moral obligation
is writes whether or not we should
extend no the issue here is whether or
not there's a moral obligation to not
kill and eat animals not whether or not
it might be morally virtuous okay so why
do you believe it's not a moral
obligation because nobody from your side
has made an argument that it should be a
moral obligation
the default the default is freedom until
there's a good reason to limit that
freedom the default is maximal right
freedoms you need with the kill animals
what sorry you want you think it's an
infringing on your freedom to needlessly
kill animals that can think and feel
just like you buy oh wow okay
[Music]
evolution